# glinski_dehydration_espr2018
Glinski DA, Henderson WM, Van Meter RJ, Purucker ST, 2018. Effect of hydration status on pesticide uptake in anurans following exposure to contaminated soils. Environmental Science and Pollution Research, 25:16192-16201,  https://doi.org/10.1007/s11356-018-1830-8.

In this study, the impact of hydration status on dermal uptake of pesticides in two species of amphibians is examined.  Absorption of pesticides in anurans occurs primarily through a highly vascularized dermal seat patch, however, pesticides can also enter through the superficial dermis following exposure.  Despite the growing body of literature on dermal exposure in amphibians, little is known on how hydration status influences uptake.  Thus, the objective of this study was to investigate the influence of hydration status on absorption of pesticides (atrazine, triadimefon, metolachlor, chlorothalonil, and imidacloprid) in southern leopard frogs (Lithobates sphenocephala) and Fowler’s toads (Anaxyrus fowleri).  Amphibian treatments included dehydration periods of 0, 2, 4, 6, 8 or 10 hours prior to exposure to pesticide-contaminated soils for 8 hours.  Following exposure, soil and whole body homogenates were extracted and analyzed by LC-MS/MS.  Dehydration time was then regressed against post-exposure concentrations to infer the impact of dehydration on dermal pesticide uptake.  Increased dehydration time resulted in significantly lowered pesticide concentrations in both species (F6,293 = 67.66, p < 0.01) for the five pesticides studied.  This phenomenon could be due to an energy and/or dilution effect. 
